>> Melkey: We've closed the loop on
a bunch of different things here.
We've set up a lot of the project here.
We have a database, a lot of things for
the backend communication here.
And we're gonna take this
just a few steps further.
We might get kind of halfway
through this kind of submodule.
But the part that we want to focus
on now is if we go back to internal,
into store is now we are fully equipped to
start working in the workout store, okay?
And the reason why I'm excited for
this is the workout store is going to be
the section of our application where we'll
be doing logic that communicates
with that database.
We'll be again writing SQL, we'll be
doing all that scary stuff that people
freak out about, like SQL injection.
All of that is going to
be all defined here.
So like always, when I look at a file,
especially a new package,
I ask myself, am I going to handle data?
The answer is yes because I'm going
to be communicating to a database.
If the answer's yes,
I typically think of a struct.
So here we're gonna create our type
Workout, it's gonna be a struct, okay?
And this struct is gonna
have many different fields.
The first one's gonna be ID of type int.
It's gonna also include this json tag,
okay, this is called a struct tag.
Go allows a bunch of different struct
tags on fields of structs, and
they all have different purposes.
So the json one helps us for encoding and
decoding JSON into a struct.
So if you get a payload from our frontend
that has a JSON that matches this tag,
we can easily decode that into our
Workout struct and vice versa.
So here we can do ID.
The next field we're gonna have is Title,
whoops, string.
>> Melkey: Like this,
we're gonna also have a Description.
>> Melkey: All right,
we're also gonna have DurationMinutes,
it's going to be an int.
>> Melkey: CaloriesBurned,
and this is gonna be
an int "json:"calories_burned.
And now the last field we're
gonna have here is Entries.
And Entries is going to be
a slice of a new struct
we're gonna have called WorkoutEntry,
okay?
And here we'll just put it as entries,
like so.
Our compiler's gonna yell at us,
rightfully so,
we don't know what
a WorkoutEntry is just yet.
But we can easily change that with
type WorkoutEntry is a struct, okay?
Int should follow a lot of those same
parameters, so ID int json:"id".
We're gonna have our ExerciseName,
it's gonna be a string, "exercise_name".
Sets is going to be an int,
I'm gonna do that as json:"sets".
Now the next fields are Reps, and Reps,
because of the constraint
we said earlier in our SQL,
this is actually gonna be a pointer
to an int because we want
to explicitly check Reps for
being nil or naught, okay?
So here we can do json,
it's gonna be reps,
have DurationSeconds, okay?
It's also gonna be a pointer to an int,
duration_seconds.
>> Melkey: Okay-
>> Speaker 2: Typo on seconds.
>> Melkey: Yes, [LAUGH] thank you.
We'll have Weight,
which will be a pointer to a float64.
>> Melkey: Weight, and
then we need two more, so
Notes is gonna be a string json:"notes".
And then the last field is OrderIndex,
right, so
OrderIndex, and
this is going to be an int json,
write this as order_index, like so.
Now we have our two structs, great.
So we have these two structs, I'm gonna
quickly also now create something we've
seen before, which is going
to be the handler equivalent.
So I'm gonna type PostgresWorkoutStore.
This is gonna be a struct, so a third
struct, and this is gonna hold db DB.
Now why, what is this, what is this thing,
why is it called Postgres?
Tell Postregs we're using Postgres,
end of story.
However, from a pragmatic perspective,
this is a really bad naming,
right, because it directly says this
WorkoutStore is bounded to Postgres, okay?
What if one day we use Postgres, but
the next day we have to use MongoDB?
What if we get a new CTR company and
they say, hey,
absolute to move Postgres we
have to use this other database.
But we're completely bounded
by PostgresWorkoutStore right?
But there is a good solution to this.
Before I show the solution, I also
wanna just finalize the constructor for
this PostgresWorkoutStore.
So let's go ahead and
create func NewPostgresWorkoutStore.
I'm gonna say this is a db sql.db, and
we'll just return
a PostgresWorkoutStore like so.
And here we'll return an address to
PostgresWorkoutStore .
Okay, now back to
the PostgresWorkoutStore.
So yeah, what happens if we
have to switch databases?
That happens a fair amount of times,
right, like new constraints, new features,
what do we do?
It'd be a real shame if
we have to go back and
rename all the instances of
Postgres to something else.
Well, luckily for us,
Go gives us the ability not to have that.
And this following thing is called
essentially decoupling our database.
But what we're going to
use is an interface.
And an interface is simply a collection
of method signatures, that's all it is.
It's not a new type, it is not a function.
It is literally a collection
of method signatures.
And when you have something that
satisfies all of the method signatures
in an interface, you can use that
type as that interface type.
So I'll demonstrate here, we do type
WorkoutStore now as just an interface,
okay, until we spin this up with
two functions, CreateWorkout.
CreateWorkout's gonna take
a pointer to a Workout,
and it's gonna return two things,
pointer to a Workout and an error.
And it's also going to GetWorkoutByID and
it's going to take an id of int64,
and it's going to return a Workout or
an error.
>> Melkey: So
right now our interface is complete.
This is it,
this is how it's going to look like.
But if you notice, our interface
is just called WorkoutStore and
we have PostgresWorkoutStore.
So right now, even though we're bounded
to our PostgresWorkoutStore and we're
gonna have our logic that communicates to
our database using Postgres native things,
it doesn't mean that our application
layer also needs to be changed.
Because our application layer, it's going
to accept the WorkoutStore interface.
It is never going to accept directly
the PostgresWorkoutStore struct, okay?
We're gonna define all the logic
using PostgresWorkoutStore, right,
cuz that's what we're using to make sense.
But if it comes to migration, all we have
to do is make the relative functions for
this new database, but that's it.
The migration's containerized
in this data store layer.
Our application layer will not care,
it won't even know the difference because
all it's going to do is communicate
via the WorkoutStore interface.